# Demo program

Most of the figures used in thesis **FFT test integration into NIST STS randomness test tool** are made using this program.

## Randomness

Two bitmaps are made to show the difference of random bits generated by good (True random number generator from https://www.random.org/ using atmospheric noise) and bad (PHP 5.3 built-in function) random number generators.

The bitmaps are made using bitmap.py.

## Discrete Fourier transform

This program also implements forward/inverse DFT (naive version), and forward/inverse FFT (Fast Fourier Transform).

## Usage

### Installation

Use Cmake to build this program. Create an directory `build` and run Cmake file in the `build` directory

    cmake ..

Then run the command

    make

in the same directory. An exceutable file `ft_demo` will be created.

### Output data

The DFT algorithms implemented in this program are tested in `main`. The tests can be switched by comment/uncomment the macros in `config.h`. Results of each transformation are stored in output test files. The macros are as follows:

`TEST_DFT_COMPLEX_FORWARD` complex forward DFT (arbitrary radix)

`TEST_DFT_REAL_FORWARD` real forward DFT (arbitrary radix)

`TEST_DFT_REAL_INVERSE` real inverse DFT (arbitrary radix)

`SPEED_DFT_FFT` compare the speed of DFT and FFT

`TEST_FFT` forward FFT (radix 2)

`TEST_FFT_PRIME` FFT with for prime input using Rader's algorithm

`TEST_MATRIX` FFT in matrix form

### Create graphs

Graphs can be made using scripts

`plot_complex.py` : complex DFT

`plot_dft_real.py` : real DFT

`ft_dft_speed.py`: speed comparison of FFT and naive DFT